hey everybody dr. rich edge burger here
and welcome back to my youtube channel
where I usually talk about the wildlife
science program at the UNM Basin campus
of Utah State University and today I
brought you to someplace really
beautiful as usual I'm up at Flaming
Gorge and below me is the Flaming Gorge
reservoir and what surrounds the
reservoir is known as red Canyon and I
brought you here today to just show you
a little example of one of the tools
that we use in wildlife management and
that tool is called the trail camera and
the way these trail cameras work is they
have a sensor on the front here that are
triggers a photograph or video when
movement happens so for example if I put
this somewhere and an animal walks by it
will take a photograph or take a video
oftentimes in wildlife management we'll
use this to look at some kind of animal
behavior for example this year the Utah
Division of Wildlife Resources is using
trail cameras to monitor some
underpasses under a highway to see if
mule deer will use that well the reason
I have you up here at Flaming Gorge is
because I use this trail camera and
another one actually two of them for the
last three days I was up here hiking
about four days ago and I found a lion
killed bighorn sheep and so what I did
is I put these cameras so that they
would monitor when the lion comes back
to feed on the bighorn sheep how did I
find that well I was up here hiking I
saw a lot of blood on the ground and
then I came to the spot where the
mountain lion had cached the bighorn
sheep and when they catch the Sheep they
usually put them under a tree and they
cover them up with pine needles and
sticks and dirt and all kinds of debris
now four days ago there wasn't as much
snow as there is right now what I'm
going to do right now is I'm actually
going to take the memory chip out of
this camera and the other camera and I'm
going to load them into my computer and
see what kind of videos and see what
kind of still shots that we got come on
I'll show you what we got
bighorn sheep went extinct in Utah for a
number of different reasons and they've
been reintroduced in
a lot of areas including Flaming Gorge
the big horn that are in Flaming Gorge
are being studied and looking at their
population sizes by the Utah Division of
Wildlife Resources and even though
they're doing well they have predators
such as Cougars and I've seen a number
of Cougars up in the Flaming Gorge area
and that particular area has good
habitat when I was up there hiking
recently right out at the overlook I saw
up some blood on the ground and I looked
around and saw blood in a lot of places
and in a couple of places I saw that
there were there was some hair and
identified that pretty quickly as
bighorn sheep hair and as I looked
around even more I saw that there was
tracks there cougar tracks and it looked
as though the Cougar had used the fence
on the overlook to corner the sheep and
to be able to to take it down as I
looked around further I found where the
Bighorn had been cached covered up by
the the lion and so that other things
wouldn't be able to get it and that's
when I put the camera the trail camera I
pointed a video camera and also a still
camera right at the right at the Sheep
well when I went back today the Sheep
had been totally fed upon and it was no
longer covered up so I was able to
retrieve the cameras and I took the
chips the little memory chips and I
downloaded them into my computer and so
let's take a look at what we see the
first thing here is and this was
recorded about two hours after I placed
the camera you can see a couple of
kittens here these are youngsters
mountain lions can have youngsters any
time of the year they can breed at any
time of the year and these are actually
seemed to me kind of small I've seen
some larger ones than this in summertime
so this this female must have bred
pretty late and she now has these two
young kittens to take care of throughout
the year and you can see them here on on
the cache before the female is uncovered
it
here you can see the female and the
kittens feeding at nighttime these trail
cameras use a and infrared light and
you'll see some flashes here as the
still camera when it takes pictures at
night it will use an infrared flash but
you can see both the female and the
kittens here feeding on the Bighorn she
looks like a pretty healthy female once
she finished up feeding she will cover
up the Sheep again and she'll be and you
can see her she's like calling to the
kittens there you can see that she'll
cover it up again so that she's able to
keep other predators and scavengers and
those kinds of things from coming in to
to feed while she's gone now coming up
you're going to be looking at some still
photos here's a still photo of her you
can see she's got some snow on her some
more snow fell while we were gone here's
one of her feeding still photo and
coming up here you can see she's
continues to feed throughout the night
the still photos are nice because you
can really focus on kind of what she's
doing and finally you can see that she's
allowed the kittens to come in and feed
with her a little bit here so pretty
neat stuff Wow wasn't that cool well if
that's the kind of stuff that you would
like to have as your career if you but
if you're interested in wildlife science
and in wildlife management at the end of
the video here I'll have my contact
information I'll have my personal cell
phone number for you to give me a call
shoot me a text or my email address
where you can send me an email and I'll
get you all the information I can and to
get you involved in wildlife management
wildlife science here at Utah State
University come back and see me again
I'll show you some more really cool
stuff that we do so on
you